# J22.2.0 (the stable version is not released)


## J22.2.0-rc2 is released on January 20, 2023

### What's New in J22.2.0-rc2?

Important Notes:
* In order to reduce the data volume, following EDM had been update to use float instead of double:
  * detsim: `SimPMTHit`
  * electruth: `LpmtElecTruth`, `SpmtElecTruth`, `TtElecTruth`, `WpElecTruth`, `TrackElecTruth`
  * calib: `CalibPmtChannel`
  * rec: `RecTrack`, `RecVertex`, `TtRecEvt`
* If you find any problems related to this change, please create a GitLab issue.

Compared to the previous release J22.2.0-rc1, there are following changes:

* SNiPER framework
  * SNiPER is updated from v2.2.2 to v2.2.3. Now the details of profiling is saved in the current working directory. Done by Jiaheng Zou.
  * Add option `--profiling --profiling-details` to save the details. See MR !116, done by Tao Lin.

* Documentation
  * Update anaconda python 3.9 and prepare the software training in OUM. See MR !128, done by Tao Lin.

* Event Data Model and I/O
  * Fix a bug in EvtNavigator: avoid potential overflow when setting path. See MR !102, done by Teng Li. 
  * Use float instead of double to reduce the file size. See MR !119, done by Tao Lin.
  * Add an option `--output-stream` to control the output stream, e.g. `--output-stream /Event/CdLpmtElec:off`. See MR !130, done by Tao Lin.

* Database
  * Add a new tool DumpDB to dump the CondDB and ParaDB into SQLite file. See MR !101 and MR !105, done by Tao Lin.

* Physics generator
  * GenGenie
    * Fix the missing output in GenGenie's own script. See MR !99, done by Zhenning Qu. 
    * Add a missing python package for GenGenie. See MR !103, done by Tao Lin.
    * Fix the issue #16 due to changes of interfaces in GENIE. See MR !117, done by Tao Lin.
    * Add a new option `--event-generator-list`. See MR !122, done by Zhenning Qu.
  * CCSN generator
    * The updates are presented on JUNO-doc-8513. See MR !96, done by Marta Colomer. 
  * AtmNuGen
    * Add several new options to select neutrino flavor, disable sampling, set tree name. See MR !129, done by Zhenning Qu. 

* Simulation
  * Top Tracker: Implement G4SensitiveDetector to collect TT hits. See MR !107, done by Rebin Karaparambil.
  * Optimize the Python script for detsim. A new option `--no-detsim` is added to run generation only. See MR !132, done by Tao Lin.
  * Fix a problem in DepEnAnaMgr. See MR !131, done by Yongpeng Zhang.

* Reconstruction
  * DummySplitByTimeAlg
    * Add exit info. See MR !106, done by Diru Wu.
  * Add time and memory consumption in several algorithms. Build with `PERFORMANCE_CHECK=1` to enable them. See MR !109, done by Zhen Liu.
  * Deconvolution
    * Update the algorithm according to OECWFrec. The package is also reviewed by Maxim Gonchar. See MR !98, !118, done by Wei Jiang.
    * Add feature extraction. See MR !112 and !115, done by Jiaxi Liu.
  * Better multi-threading support
    * NPEUnifCTool: see MR !125, done by Yixiang Yang.

* Classification
  * Add checking of calib headers so the input without elec waveform or t/q could be also classified. See MR !100, done by Tao Lin.
  * Add a new package nClusterMuonClassificationTool. See MR !110, done by Diru Wu.
  * Add support for PSD steering. See details in MR !56, done by Yuxiang Hu.

* OEC
  * Add macro `BUILD_ONLINE` to control the build for online. Several algorithms had been updated. See MR !108, !113, done by Yixiang Yang.
  * Some options related to PMTCalibSvc are removed. See MR !114, done by Wei Jiang.
  * Save IBD information in HECAlg. See MR !123, done by Mingyuan Wang. 
  * Add a utility TQConverter and optimize the code in OEC output part. See MR !121, done by Xin Huang.
  * Add an atmospheric neutrino identification algorithm. See MR !120, done by Xinhai He. 
  * Improve the OEC mt script. See MR !133, done by Tao Lin.

### Basic info of J22.2.0-rc2

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J22.2.0-rc2
- offline data version: "trunk 157"
- sniper version: "v2.2.3" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc2


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc2/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.



----

## J22.2.0-rc1 is released on December 15, 2022

### What's New in J22.2.0-rc1?

Important Notes about using the correct offline data:
* The detector simulation uses different Birks constants for different particles and a modified Cerenkov light yield factor.
* OMILREC needs a scale factor file.

Compared to the previous release J22.2.0-rc0, there are following changes:

* External libraries and CI
  * add support of clang. contributed from Tao Lin.
    * Fix the compilation problem. See MR !25.
  * CI
    * Add clang in CI. See MR !28.
    * Pick the right artifacts during testing. See MR !34.
    * add flag to control the tests when it is a schedule job. See MR !35.
  * add `junoenv libs vlist` to facilitate version overriding. contributed from Simon Blyth.
  * git-junoenv is developed to support partial checkout and build. 
  * junoenv is updated to support the Ubuntu 22.04 with glibc 2.35. Test by Beatrice Jelmini.
  * A Dockerfile to build offline on Ubuntu is also added. 
  * Fix a build problem in Analysis/BasicDist. See MR !64, done by Tao Lin. 

* Documentation
  * Update the example to setup JUNOSW. See MR !45, !47, done by Tao Lin.
  * Add an example to use event split. See MR !57, done by Yuxiang Hu.
  * DCI (contributed from Xiaomei Zhang)
    * File uploading and registering to DFC in local farm environment. See MR !54.
  * update usage of the junoenv part in oum. See MR !80, done by Tao Lin.

* Event Data Model and IO
  * ElecTruth
    * Add pulse type in `SpmtElecTruth` (See MR !24, done by Loïc Labit).
  * ElecEvent
    * Change the length of ADC/TDC in ElecWaveform to 16 bits. See MR !43, contributed from Jiaheng Zou.
    * Remove the init of vector adc to fix issue #39. See MR !46, contributed from Tao Lin.
  * ROOT I/O
    * Add a new tool to merge EDM data files. See MR !26, contributed from Teng Li.
    * Enable RootIO to jump to n-th events when events are split. See MR !30, done by Teng Li.
    * Add version definition in recent updated EDM files for schema evolution. See MR !72, done by Teng Li. 
    * When RootFileWriter decides whether to write out the EvtNavigator, it checks whether all headers were already written out, and writes out the EvtNavigator after the last header. See MR !92.
  * Fix a few issues related to Raw Event Data Model and I/O.
    * fix the problem due to WaveformChannel not built. See MR !73, done by Tao Lin.
    * add RawEventBook. See MR !74.
    * fix the trailer marker checking. See MR !75, done by Jiaheng Zou.
    * make it be compatible with the new EDM. See MR !78, done by Jiaheng Zou.
  * Add a tool to dump the information in EDM file. See MR !90, done by Tao Lin.

* Database (done by Tao Lin)
  * update the dbi according to the DB updates. See MR !53.
  * add ParaDB to access parameter database. See MR !59.
  * add the missing DBI module in OEC. See MR !71.
  * Use ParaDB in MCParamsSvc, which could be enabled by `--paradb`. See MR !82.
  * remove the unused types DB and Frontier in PMTSimParamSvc. See MR !83.
  * register JUNOParaDBModule in all the related scripts. See MR !84.
  * link sqlite3 explictly. This fix the problem in Ubuntu 22.04. See MR !89.

* Generator
  * GtGunTool
    * allow user to sepcify PDG code, which fix #41. see MR !49, contributed from Tao Lin.
  * GtPositionerTool
    * Use `LPMT_CD` to support generation in different types of PMTs in the same job. See MR !66, done by Tao Lin.
  * GtGenieAtmoEvGenTool
    * A new tool to integrate gengev_atmo. See MR !13, done by Jie Cheng. 
  
* Detector Simulation
  * Set different Birks constants for different particles, and the Cerenkov light yield factor is modified. Details please refer to DocDB-8400. See MR !55, done by Yaoguang Wang. 
  * Opticks integration, contributed from Simon Blyth.
    * collect gensteps in G4Cerenkov_modified instead of LocalG4Cerenkov1042, add envvar verboseLevel controls for processes (see MR !22)
    * add plog loggers for PMTSim and PhysiSim and hook these into primary logger in DetSim0Svc.cc (see MR !23)
    * collect more debug fields into U4Scintillation_Debug hidden behind WITH_G4CXOPTICKS_DEBUG, plus avoid compilation warnings (see MR !24 and !27)
    * add Mask geometry debug interface and update the existing PMT geometry debug interface (see MR !33)
    * testing a potential fix for this issue, by changing pzBottomCut of inner and outer ellipsoid (see MR !41)
    * fix Hama MaskTail PMT overlap by shifting MaskTail ellipsoid down to become concentric with lower hemi-ellipsoid of PMT (see MR !42)
  * MCParamsSvc
    * Fix the missing `__init__.py`, see MR !29, done by Tao Lin.
  * Analysis manager
    * Update the default max hits to 10000 in DataModelWriterWithSplit. see MR !52, done by Yuxiang Hu.

* Electronics Simulation
  * common
    * Handle local time and time zone in date string and support ISO 8601 `yyyy-mm-ddTHH:MM:SSZ` or `yyyy-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS+08` (See MR !31 and !32, done by Tao Lin)
    * Fix a critical issue when build with debug mode, which is caused by an uninitialized variable. See MR !58, done by Tao Lin.
    * use typedef to define the std::array in TriggerToolWPLpmt. See MR !60, done by Tao Lin.
    * According to the update in EDM, using uint16_t. See MR !61, done by Haosen Zhang.
    * decouple tt and cd-pretrigger. See MR !70, done by Haosen Zhang.
  * CD
    * modify TriggerToolLpmt.cc and TriggerVFLToolLpmt.cc to solve hits repeat readout during global trigger. See MR !62, done by Haosen Zhang.
    * update electronics clock start time to align trigger time. See MR !63, done by Haosen Zhang. 
    * avoid repeated darkpulse generation. See MR !64, done by Haosen Zhang.
    * reduce data copy during FPGA TQ simulation. See MR !69, done by Haosen Zhang.
    * modify the sampling method of the spe model. See MR !67, done by Haosen Zhang.
  * TT
    * Remove the digitization from the Top Tracker (TT) detector simulation. See MR !68, done by Rebin  Karaparabil.
  
* Reconstruction
  * OECWFrec (maintained by Wei Jiang)
    * A new algorithm called OECWFrec is developed based on Devconvolution to meet the requirement in OEC, see JUNO-doc-9086. See MR !77.
    * OECWFrec update steering cut values, add some interfaces and stability check. See MR !87.
    * In OECWFrec, move the SPE parameters to PMTCalibSvc. See MR !91.
    * In OECWFrec, add mutex to support thread-safety. See MR !93.
  * QCtrRecAlg
    * simplify gain cal in qctrrecalg to fix the mt-OEC problem. See MR !40, done by Guihong Huang. 
    * add a new tool called IMB, using charge and exponential hit time weightings. See MR !48, done by Blake Iwan. 
    * Add SQMLE (simplified QMLE from OMILREC) to oec QCtrRecAlg; Set nH energy scale for QCtrRecAlg. See MR !88, done by Guihong Huang.
  * OMILREC
    * set n-H energy scale from nHEScaleFactor.txt calibration file. see MR !76, done by Guihong Huang.
  * Muon reconstruction
    * add a new tool called SphMuonRecTool, with the help of shperical functions. See MR !44, done by Artem V. Chukanov.
    * Improve the SphMuonRecTool. See MR !79, done by Artem V. Chukanov.
  * PSD
    * Update PSDTools training part and add more flexible switches. To fix bug that training model cannot be properly used by tut_det2PSD.py. See MR !36, done by Xiaojie Luo.


* OEC
  * MTOEC
    * Add an example to demonstrate multi-threaded oec (see MR !37, done by Tao Lin)
    * if users don't run elecsim in mtoec, set the input action as default instead of append. Fix #42. See MR !50, done by Tao Lin)
  * modify the ptag for neutron and michel. see MR !81, done by Yongpeng Zhang.
  * Use CdLpmtQSpecMuonRecTool as the default muon reconstruction algorithm instead of SpmtMuonRecTool in OEC. See MR !85, done by Yongpeng Zhang.

### Basic info of J22.2.0-rc1

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J22.2.0-rc1
- offline data version: "trunk 157"
- sniper version: "v2.2.2" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc1


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc1/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.



----


## J22.2.0-rc0 is released on September 30, 2022

### What's New in J22.2.0-rc0?

Important Notes:
* Since J22.2, the version control system is switched from subversion to git. The development model is also switched to the merge request (MR). 
* The installation script junoenv is moved to a standalone git repository.
* This release note is based on the merge requests since J22.1.0-rc4. 
* The project name is changed from offline to junosw. 
* The physics performance should be consistent with J22.1.0-rc4 as there are no parameters update. 

Compared to the previous release J22.1, there are following major changes:

* Compiler and Linker
  * gcc: from 8.3.0 to 11.2.0
  * binutils: from 2.28 to 2.36
* External Libraries (for details, see junoenv#1)
  * python: from 3.8.12 to 3.9.14
  * python-setuptools: from 58.0.4 to 58.1.0
  * python-pip: from 21.2.4 to 22.2.2
  * python-cython: from 0.29.24 to 0.29.28
  * python-numpy: from 1.21.4 to 1.22.3
  * cmake: from 3.22.1 to 3.24.1
  * git: from 2.34.1 to 2.37.3
  * xercesc: from 3.2.2 to 3.2.3
  * gsl: from 2.5 to 2.7
  * fftw3: from 3.3.8 to 3.3.10
  * sqlite3: from 3.35.5 to 3.38.5
  * cmt: removed. 
  * xrootd: from 5.3.4 to 5.4.3
  * ROOT: from 6.24.06 to 6.26.06
  * hepmc: from 2.06.09 to 2.06.11
  * genie: from 3.00.06 to 3.02.00
* Documentation
  * Add git usage in OUM (see MR !6)
* Support GitLab CI
  * See MR !11
* CMake Modules
  * Switch the name to junosw (see MR !3 and !5)
  * Detect git version in cmake (see MR !7)
  * support TAOSW (see MR !15)
  * Support partial build in cmake (see MR !18)
  * The order of targets could be important when use partial build. See MR !19.
* Fix the hardcode offline name in source code (see MR !1 and !2)
  * data file path for SpmtElecConfigSvc
  * geometry path in HECMuonAlg
  * data file path for Guide Tube
  * input data of unified generator are moved to offline-data

* Generator
  * Unified Generator
    * Add a common method to retrieve the data path (see MR !4)
  * GenGenie
    * fix the issue due to GENIE API changed (see MR !8 and !20 (contributed from Simon Blyth))

* Reconstruction
  * Extend the PMT property for muon reconstruction (see MR !17, contriuted from Artem Chukanov <chukanov@jinr.ru>)

### Basic info of J22.2.0-rc0

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J22.2.0-rc0
- offline data version: "trunk 150"
- sniper version: "v2.2.2" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc0


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J22.2.0-rc0/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.



