# J22.1.0 (the stable version is not released)

## J22.1.0-rc4 is released on September 8, 2022

### What's New in J22.1.0-rc4?

Compared to the previous release J22.1.0-rc3, there are following major changes:

* Tutorial
  * JUNOApplication.py
    * Bugfix: when container is dict, need to access using values() (done by Tao, see r5882)
    * Create tasks before initialize modules, which is required by OEC (done by Tao, see r5885)
  * JUNOModule.py
    * Skipping a module when it is already registered (done by Tao, see r5883)
  * tut_elec2rec.py
    * As the waveform EDM paths are changed, need to unregister the new path. Otherwise the waveform will be stored in elec2rec file. (done by Tao, see r5926)

* Data Model
  * change muon track info in OEC event (done by Yongpeng, see r5918)

* Detector/Parameter
  * Update parameters related to experimental hall (done by jpandre, see r5907)

* GenTools
  * Add a new flag 0x2000 to indicate that GRDM will decay with non-zero life time (done by Yuxiang, see r5879)
  * Add a vertex positioner to makes it possible to create vertex only within a given depth of rock. (done by jpandre, see r5908)

* Detector simulation
  * Updated Opticks integration requiring latest Opticks, hidden behind WITH_G4CXOPTICKS macro, tests ongoing (done by Simon, see r5892)
  * add the neutron select process anamgr to classify the neutron process (done by Yuxiang, r5909)

* Pre-Mixing
  * Add filter during pre-mixing so that the 'empty' events could be discarded. (done by Tao, see r5910-r5914) 

* Electronics simulation
  * Add the high gain/low gain transition and electronics non-linerity to WP Lpmts (done by Haoqi, see r5880 and r5881)
  * change the WP trigger threshold of npmt to 20 and 15; fixed a bug for trigger (done by Haoqi, see 5887)

* Waveform Reconstruction
  * Enable low/high range waveform distinguish (done by Wei Jiang, see r5905, r5906) 

* OEC (maintained by Xin)
  * Remove JUNOOECApplication.py as JUNOApplication.py supports multiple containers (done by Xin, see r5884)
  * enable different store format for prompt/delayed signals (done by Xin, see r5888)
  * enable use multi classification tools (done by Xin, see r5889)
  * Use tools to find correlation (done by Xin, see r5890)
  * Rename muonVeto to isVetoed (done by Xin, see r5891)
  * Add HECSingleTool to do muon veto for singles (done by Xin, r5893)
  * add muon track info. to find michel or neutron (done by Yongpeng, r5894-r5904)
  * Add the 7us veto for correlations, so that the size of events after muon could be reduced (done by Xin, see r5921)

### Basic info of J22.1.0-rc4

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- svn url: http://juno.ihep.ac.cn/svn/offline/tags/J22.1.0-rc4
- offline data version: "trunk 146"
- external interface version: "trunk 33"
- sniper version: "v2.2.2" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 8.3.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc4


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc4/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----



## J22.1.0-rc3 is released on August 12, 2022

### What's New in J22.1.0-rc3?

Compared to the previous release J22.1.0-rc2, there are following major changes:

* Build system
  * offline version is added in cmake. Now two types are supported
    * release: MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-rc<n>
    * development: MAJOR.MINOR.DATE-<id>
  * In order to build offline software for on-line, add macro called BUILD_ONLINE

* Job Info
  * the JobInfoSvc is updated to record necessary information of a job

* Tutorial
  * Add a standard simulation parameters, which are used in neutrino2022 conference. 
  * Cache the instances of shared elemements to avoid creating new objects (see r5864 and r5866). 

* Detector simulation
  * Add another method to simulate high intensity laser (see r5850-5855, done by Akira)

* Electronics Simulation
  * Always store the spmt electruth (see r5833 done by Cecile)

* Reconstruction
  * OMILREC
    * avoid the dependency on Geant4 libraries. 
  * RecTimeLikeAlg
    * remove the dependencies on Geant4. 

* OEC
  * Fix the RootWriter problem (see r5865 done by Xin Huang). 

### Basic info of J22.1.0-rc3

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- svn url: http://juno.ihep.ac.cn/svn/offline/tags/J22.1.0-rc3
- offline data version: "trunk 146"
- external interface version: "trunk 33"
- sniper version: "v2.2.1" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 8.3.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc3


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc3/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----


## J22.1.0-rc2 is released on June 18, 2022

### What's New in J22.1.0-rc2?
Important Notes:
* The current version of EDM is not compatible with the older versions.
* The reconstruction steering is based on Monte Carlo truth information, 
  please make sure SimEvt is available.
  
Compared to the previous release J22.1.0-rc1, there are following major changes:

* External Libraries
  * ONNX runtime: v1.11.1 (new package, to support machine learning inference in offline software)
    * An example is also added in Examples/ONNXRuntimeInference (done by Tao Lin)
  * SNiPER: v2.2.1
  * MtSNiPER: v0.9.1
  
* Event Data Model
  * EvtNavigator (version v4, done by Teng Li)
    * an event type (uint32_t) is added.
    * several methods are added to get/set the detector types, point/track-like type, muon types.
  * Separate CdRecHeader and CdTrackHeader (done by Teng Li)

* Database
  * dbi (developed by Tao Lin)
    * DBAPI is added to execute the SQL query and the results are stored into std::tuple.
    * A Frontier based backend is added.
    
* Tutorial
  * module JUNOEventRecModule.py
    * Steering is the default option in the event reconstruction. (done by Tao Lin)
      The track-like type is based on the PDGID 13 or -13 (mu+/mu-). 
      * OMILREC is the default algorithm for point-like event in CD.
      * LsqMuonRecTool is the default algorithm for single muon event in CD.
      * SpmtMuonRecTool is the default algorithm for muon bundles in CD.
      * PoolMuonRecTool is the default algorithm for WP.
      * TTTrackingAlg is the default for TT.
    * Fix the TT EDM not saved problem (done by JP)

* Physics Generator
  * UnifiedGen (added by Xin Zhao)
    * A unified generator for the IBD process (reactor-v and geo-v). 

* Detector Simulation
  * PMTSimParamSvc
    * reduce the output information (done by Yuxiang Hu)
  * Pre event mixing (added by Tao Lin)
    * This algorithm is used to reduce the number of inputs for electronics simulation.

* Electronics Simulation
  * New option --{enable,disable}StoreElecTruthEDM to switch the output of ElecTruth. (done by Tao Lin)
    * The EventKeeper will not be turned off when using this option. 
  * Add Run and Event Number in EvtNavigator (done by Tao Lin)
    * Users are allow to set the Run Number (negative for simulation)

* Calibration
  * PMTCalibSvc (update by Wei Jiang)
    * Add SPMT parameters based on MC truth

* Classification (new, added by Tao Lin)
  * For the details, see JUNO-doc-8510.
  * MC truth based classification is implemented and then the type is set in EvtNavigator.

* Reconstruction
  * Steering
    * TopSteering (new, added by Jiaheng)
    * RecMuon/MuSteering (new, added by Jilei)
  * Deconvolution (update by Wei Jiang)
    * Update the SPE filters
  * RecTimeLikeAlg (updated by Zhen Qian)
    * The default case of RecTimeLikeAlg has changed from the reconstruction with no-elec data to the reconstruction with elec(electronic simulation) data.
    * The useless data files in RecTimeLikeAlg directory has been cleaned up.
  * OMILREC (updated by Guihong Huang)
    * update spmt input and parameter interface

* Event Display (updated by Zhengyun You)
  * Update the EDM related code.
  * Change the default geometry root file path.

* OEC (maintained by Xin Huang)
  * Remove the multiplicity cut and muon veto in HECAlg (done by Xin)
    * this should fix the problem of mis-tagging michel electron to muon
  

### Basic info of J22.1.0-rc2

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- svn url: http://juno.ihep.ac.cn/svn/offline/tags/J22.1.0-rc2
- offline data version: "trunk 146"
- external interface version: "trunk 33"
- sniper version: "v2.2.1" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 8.3.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc2


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc2/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----


## J22.1.0-rc1 is released on April 22, 2022

### What's New in J22.1.0-rc1?

Important Notes:
* The current version of EDM is not compatible with the older versions.
* OEC is enabled by default in this release.

Compared to the previous release J22.1.0-rc0, there are following major changes:

* External Libraries
  * Nuwro: install the additional headers and binary (done by Tao Lin)

* Event Data Model
  * The naming convention and structures are updated (done by Teng Li). See JUNO-doc-8255.
    * Note: the reconstruction EDM is not finalized yet. 
  * The related algorithms are modified to adopt the latest changes (done by Tao Lin). 
    * Two helper functions are added to help user read and write header objects with EDM path.
    * Use 'auto' to deduce the types. 
  * EDMUtil
    * Put all the headers into EDMUtil, so users could access them after installation.
    * JunoEDMDefinitions.cc is updated. For the default EDM path, see this file. 
  * EvtNavigator (version 3) is updated (done by Teng Li)
    * EventID and RunID is added. 
    * fix a bug in EvtNavigator? that causes dislocation of path and SmartRef.
  * BaseEvent
    * EventID and RunID is removed from BaseEvent.
  * GenEvent
    * The package name is renamed from GenEventV2 to GenEvent
  * SimEvent
    * The package name is renamed from SimEventV2 to SimEvent
  * ElecTruth
    * CdLpmtElecTruthHeader, CdLpmtElecTruthEvt, LpmtElecTruth
    * CdSpmtElecTruthHeader, CdSpmtElecTruthEvt, SpmtElecTruth
    * WpElecTruthHeader, WpElecTruthEvt, WpElecTruth
    * TtElecTruthHeader, TtElecTruthEvt, TtElecTruth
    * TrackElecTruthHeader, TrackElecTruthEvt, TrackElecTruth
  * ElecEvent
    * CdWaveformHeader, CdWaveformEvt (for CD-LPMT waveform data)
    * CdLpmtElecHeader, CdLpmtElecEvt (for CD-LPMT t/q data)
    * CdSpmtElecHeader, CdSpmtElecEvt (for CD-SPMT t/q data)
    * WpWaveformHeader, WpWaveformEvt (for WP waveform data)
    * WpElecHeader, WpElecEvt (for WP t/q data)
    * TtElecHeader, TtElecEvt
    * ElecWaveform (for waveform data)
    * ElecChannel (for t/q data)
    * Cd/Wp/Tt TriggerHeader, TriggerEvt
    * Note 1: pointer is used instead of object to avoid the copy of large object.
    * Note 2: there is no crate any more and several timestamps are removed. 
  * CalibEvent
    * CdLpmtCalibHeader, CdLpmtCalibEvt
    * CdSpmtCalibHeader, CdSpmtCalibEvt
    * WpCalibHeader, WpCalibEvt
    * TtCalibHeader, TtCalibEvt
    * CalibPmtChannel
    * CalibTtChannel
  * ClusterInfoEvent
    * ClusterInfoEvt
  * RecEvent
    * CdRecHeader, CdRecEvt and CdTrackRecEvt (this part will be updated in the next release)

* Database
  * As it will cause security problem, the password in my.cnf is removed. 
  
* Tutorial
  * module JUNODetSimModule.py
    * Register AmBe in generator (done by Tao Lin)
    * Update Guide Tube (done by Yankai Liu)
  * module JUNOElecSimModule.py
    * Add laser trigger (done by Akira)
    * Add interface to OEC (done by Haosen Zhang)
    * Add support to read a list of files (done by Haosen Zhang)
  * module JUNOWaveRecModule.py
    * add WPCalib (done by Haoqi)
    * no need to set the time window length for deconvolution algorithm (done by Wei Jiang)
  * module JUNOEventRecModule.py
    * Load RecTimeLikeAlg data under JUNOTOP/WORKTOP (done by Tao Lin)

* Generator
  * An example is added to show the integration of GENIE and SNiPER (done by Tao Lin)
    * The package is in 'offline/Generator/GenGenie'. 
    * A converter from GENIE to HepMC is implemented. 

* Detector Simulation
  * Update of guide tube geometry (done by Yankai Liu)
    * Construct several segments of torus to avoid the overlapping problem
  * PhysiSim
    * move the data to '$ENV{JUNOTOP}/data/Simulation/DetSim/PhysiSim/data'
  * DetsimOptions
    * Some unused input files are removed (done by Yuxiang Hu)

* Electronics Simulation 
  * Update the python script to support the root inputs as a list
  * Change readout window from [-100, 1150] to [-300, 700]
  * Update on WP simulation
    * Modified the workflow of ElecSim a bit to make a proper WP simulation for the case of no hits in CD
  * Add FPGA TQ simulation
    * `--enableCDLpmtTQ` :enable FPGA TQ Simulation
    * `--disableCDLpmtTQ`: disable FPGA TQ Simualtion
    * default: enableCDLpmtTQ
  * Set the default of `--enableSplitInput` as True
  * Change the trigger time to the end time of trigger windows
  * Discard the hit with a long time (longer than the end time of the job) to save computing resources
  * Move the data to '$ENV{JUNOTOP}/data/Simulation/ElecSim'

* Reconstruction
  * All the algorithms are updated to use the latest EDM (done by Tao Lin). 
  * Deconvolution: automatic time window according to the readout (done by Wei Jiang)
  * RecTimeLikeAlg: input param data are moved to data repo (done by Tao Lin). 
  * RecMuon: 
    * update the freshPmtData to support input from different sub-detectors. (done by Tao)
    * add CdLpmtQSpecMuonRecTool (done by Jilei Xu)
    * input param data are moved to data repo (done by Tao Lin)

* OEC (maintained by Xin Huang)
  * OEC Tutorial
    * Add the option to run electronic simulation under OEC frame work
    * JUNOOECModule.py: Update the configuration of deconvolution algorithm
  * OEC configurations
    * Update the configuration: tag values, tag conditions
    * Add "storeFormat" in the configuration file to indicate whether to store waveform or not
  * Algorithms are updated to use the latest EDM
  * OEC stores waveform or T/Q according to the configuration

### Basic info of J22.1.0-rc1

This is a pre-release version for validation.
- svn url: http://juno.ihep.ac.cn/svn/offline/tags/J22.1.0-rc1
- offline data version: "trunk 139"
- external interface version: "trunk 33"
- sniper version: "v2.1" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 8.3.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc1


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc1/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----

## J22.1.0-rc0 is released on March 4th, 2022

### What's New in J22.1.0-rc0?

Important Notes:
* The version convention is switched to MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH style since 2022. 
* Due to the new SNiPER interface, since r5227, the trunk could be only compiled with SNiPER v2.1+.

Compared to the previous release J21v2r0-Pre0, there are following major changes:

* External Libraries
  * python-numpy: from 1.21.2 to 1.21.4
  * boost: from 1.77.0 to 1.78.0
  * cmake: from 3.21.2 to 3.22.1
  * git: from 2.33.0 to 2.34.1
  * xrootd: from 5.3.1 to 5.3.4
  * TBB: from 2019_U8 to 2020.3, with cmake config generated.
  * GiBUU: r2021_01 (New package, testing)
  * SNiPER: v2.1
  * MtSNiPER: v0.9

* CMake Modules
  * Allow to build packages outside offline project, including XOD, EDM and PKG. 
  * Improve the tcsh support. 

* New SNiPER interface
  * Apply the new interface to offline (done by Jiaheng Zou, see r5228)
  * Add an example for multithreaded reconstruction (done by Jiaheng, see r5227)

* Tutorial
  * module JUNODetSimModule.py
    * Add support to convert from command line options to environment variables, which will be then used by opticks (done by Simon Blyth).
    * Fix the Python 3 compatibility for tracking anamgr (done by Yuxiang Hu). 
    * Update the LED calibration simulation (done by Akira Takenaka).
    * Allow to construct PMTs according to a list of ranges using the new option '--ranges-pmt-constructed' (done by Tao). 
    * Update the GTCS calibration simulation (done by Yankai Liu).
  * module JUNOEventRecModule.py
    * Update the signal time window default value from 280 to 500 for OMILREC (done by Wei Jiang).
  * add GRDM decay config files, see r5242. The files are prepared by Jie Zhao.

* Detector
  * Parameter
    * Add the python module (done by Zhen Qian).
    * Update the PMT positions in the data repo (done by Zhen Qian). 
    * Update the PMT parameters and the mapping in the data repo (done by Haosen Zhang).

* Physics generator
  * AtmNuGen
    * Update the usage (done by Yuxiang).
  * ProtonDecay
    * Update the usage (done by Yuxiang).
  * ReactorNuES
    * Update Fallot spectrum and add some command options (done by Jinhao Huang).
  * Muon
    * Update the coordinate system according to JUNO-doc-4599 (done by Jilei Xu, see r5209).
  * IBD and GeoNu
    * Reduce the energy range and increase the number of bins to remove the steps (done by Philipp Kampmann, see r5328 and r5329).

* Detector Simulation
  * Analysis Code
    * Update CMakeLists.txt to support conditional built with opticks (done by Simon).
    * Update OPSimAnaMgr with a testing ratio (done by Tao, for testing only).
  * Calibration Unit
    * Fix the overlap problems and update the GTCS geometry (done by Yankai Liu).
  * Central Detector
    * Update the thickness of acrylic from 120 mm to 124 mm (done by Yuxiang, see r5280). 
    * Add simplified CSG geometries for Addition Acrylic (done by Simon)
    * Fix the overlap problems in the calibration anchors (done by Yuxiang)
    * Fix the PMT overlap problems and update the chimney dimensions (done by Tao)
  * Detector Options
    * Reset the lifetime of primary particle to zero when using particle gun simulate GRDM (done by Tao). 
    * Fix a bug due to assert is optimized, which cause the initialization is not invoked (done by Tao). See r5214.
    * Experimental hall is updated (done by Jilei Xu), see r5225 and ticket #114. 
  * OP Simulator
    * Update the generation of scintillation photons (done by Yuxiang).

* Electronics Simulation
  * LPMT waveform
    * Update the simulation of CD-LPMT waveform.
  * SPMT
    * Update the post-tolerance, trigger and split windows to keep same to LPMT (Cecile, r5337-r5339).

* Reconstruction
  * OMILREC
    * Update the software performance (done by Guihong Huang).
  * Muon reconstruction
    * Update Muon reconstruction packages (done by Yongpeng Zhang).
    * Put all the muon related packages into RecMuon (done by Tao).
    * Unify the muon reconstruction related tool interface IRecMuonTool (done by Tao).


* OEC
  * OEC EDM
    * Register the OEC Event Data Model into "/Event/OEC". 

### Basic info of J22.1.0-rc0


This is a pre-release version for validation.
- svn url: http://juno.ihep.ac.cn/svn/offline/tags/J22.1.0-rc0
- offline data version: "trunk 131"
- external interface version: "trunk 33"
- sniper version: "v2.1" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 8.3.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc0


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc830/Pre-Release/J22.1.0-rc0/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


