# J23.1.0 (the stable version is not released)


## J23.1.0-rc2 is released on August 12, 2023

### What's New in J23.1.0-rc2?

This release is used for the reprocessing of the commissioning data in August 2023. The RAW Data I/O is updated. Note: the new Identifier and Mapping service is still under validation. The ID in RTRAW file is still `GCU*10+Channel`.

Compared to the previous release J23.1.0-rc1, there are following changes:

* Documentation
  * add guideline of QCtrRecAlg to user manual. See MR !207, done by Guihong Huang.
* Database
  * support customized database name, so DBI could be used by JUNOSW and TAOSW. See MR !211, done by Tao Lin.
* Identifier and Mapping
  * A first version of the new Identifier and Mapping service. See MR !195 and !213, done by Chengxin Wu. 
  * Add GCU+Channel mapping. See !215. 
* RAW Data I/O
  * *ignore the unknown data blocks so that we can handle the recent data*. See MR !216, done by Jiaheng Zou.
* Simulation
  * Fix issue #88 , PMT Geometry pivot, Transition from FastSim to Custom Boundary Process C4OpBoundaryProcess. See MR !180, done by Simon Blyth.
  * Add options to skip expensive stick geom and toptask json dumping. See MR !200, done by Simon Blyth.
  * add pComissioning and Water in GtPosGeoMapping.yaml. See MR !204, done by Xuefeng Ding.
* Reconstruction
  * Fix the issue #111: Remove detoption in TTTracking. See MR !197, done by Tao Lin.
  * CdLpmtQSpecMuonRecTool and SpmtMuonRecTool update. See MR !193, done by Jilei Xu. 
  * LsqMuonRecTool and RecCdMuonAlg update. See MR !190, done by Diru Wu.
  * Enable shorter waveform for Deconv/OECWFrec. See MR !191, done by Wei Jiang. 
  * Change default OECRecAlg from ptf to steering sqmle. See MR !199, done by Guihong Huang. 
  * Revise the RecCdMuonAlg and fix possible bugs. See MR !202, done by Diru Wu.
  * add necessary models in PSD tool py script. See MR !208, done by Yuxiang Hu.
  * Modular waveform reconstruction algorithm for OEC. See MR !198, done by Wei Jiang.
  * Update to IMB fitter in QCtrRecAlg. See MR !206, done by Iwan.
  * Implement the energy reconstruction for positron using BDT (described in arXiv:2206.09040). See MR !209, done by Leonard Imbert.
  * Add clipping muon track reconstruction in CD Water. See MR !156, done by Yu Zhang.
* OEC
  * recover QSumTool in seq_withrec.json and create Test Case for OEC. See MR !203, done by Guihong Huang and Tao Lin.


### Basic info of J23.1.0-rc2
This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J23.1.0-rc2
- dbdata url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/dbdata.git
- offline data version: J23.1.0-rc2
- sniper version: "v2.2.3" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc2


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc2/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----





## J23.1.0-rc1 is released on May 19, 2023

### What's New in J23.1.0-rc1?

This release is used for the reprocessing of the commissioning data. The RAW Data I/O is updated.

Compared to the previous release J23.1.0-rc0, there are following changes:

* Documentation
  * Add GenGenie related user guide. See MR !142, done by Zhenning Qu.
* ROOT I/O
  * Add an example to access GenEvt information. See MR !186, done by Tao Lin.
* RAW Data I/O
  * Rename 'RawEvt' to 'DAQ' and unify the scripts. See MR !187, done by Tianhao Zhao.
  * Add GCU ID and timestamp. See MR !189 and !194, done by Tianhao Zhao. 
* Simulation
  * Implement time-walk and fix PE multiplication via Bellamy function in the Top-Tracker ElecSim. See MR !188, done by Rebin Karaparambil.
* Reconstruction
  * Review of CdLpmtQSpecMuonRecTool. See MR !127, done by Diru Wu, reviewed by Maxim Gonchar.
  * replace PMTTable with PMTVector. See MR !177, done by Maxim Gonchar, Leonard Imbert, Guihong Huang, etc. 
* OEC
  * Fix the initialization order issue caused in MR !142. See MR !185, done by Tao Lin. 

### Basic info of J23.1.0-rc1
This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J23.1.0-rc1
- offline data version: "trunk 161"
- sniper version: "v2.2.3" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc1


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc1/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.


----

## J23.1.0-rc0 is released on April 19, 2023

### What's New in J23.1.0-rc0?

This release is used for the commissioning data analysis.

Compared to the previous release J22.2, there are following changes:

* Git and GitLab CI
  * Add mailmap to handle users with multiple emails. See MR !143, done by Tao Lin..
  * Add building test to CI/CD for online OEC. See MR !157, done by Yixiang Yang.

* Documentation
  * Improve the detector simulation part. See MR !149, !160, done by Yuxiang Hu.
  * Improve the electronics simulation part. See MR !150, !152, done by Haosen Zhang.
  * Improve the PSD part. See MR !154, !155, done by Xiaojie Luo.
  * Improve the muon reconstruction part. See MR !153, done by Diru Wu.

* Raw Data I/O
  * Add support for the commissioning data. See MR !173, done by Tianhao Zhao and Jiaheng Zou.

* IAD based data analysis
  * Add the first version of IAD software. See MR !170, done by Yixiang Yang.

* Database
  * Fix the issue when a service conddb is not created. See MR !138, done by Tao Lin.
  * Fix the null_payload missing symbol issue. See MR !139, done by Simon Blyth.

* Generator
  * Improve the GenGenie. See MR !145, !164, done by Zhenning Qu.
  * Fix undefined symbol problem in GenDecay. See MR !147, done by Tao Lin.
  * A gentool to pre-select FC events of atmospheric neutrino. A special status code 0x4000 is used. See MR !151, !169, done by Zhenning Qu.
  * Fix issue #85 for solar neutrino generator. See MR !158, done by Xuefeng Ding.
  * Make the Deex become a standalone package. See MR !161, done by Yuxiang Hu.
  * Add GenNuWro. See MR !144, done by Qiyu Yan.
  * Add GenDeex. See MR !176, done by Zhenning Qu.
  * Add -stop, -wpo, -cdWater options to select stop muon, muons only passing through the water pool, the CD water buffer. See MR !179, done by Diru Wu.

* Simulation
  * Added low dependency PMT data access needed by a future CustomG4OpBoundaryProcess. See MR !126, done by Simon Blyth.
  * Add SimVertex in SimEvent and optimize simulation framework to better support radioactivity decay and other processes. See MR !148, done by Tao Lin.
  * Improve the copy number related code. See MR !168, done by Tao Lin.
  * Support different trigger thresholds and trigger windows for different volumes in VFL trigger. See MR !166, done by Haosen Zhang.
  * Reduce the data size of FPGA tq and elecsim waveform. See MR !165, done by Haosen Zhang. 
  * Fix issue #102. See MR !174, done by Tao Lin.
  * Add WP PMT related simulation parameters. See MR !175, !182, done by Tao Lin. The data is uploaded by Haoqi Lu.
  * Avoid overlap between adjacent readout windows of CD LPMT global trigger. See MR !171, done by Haosen Zhang.
  * Add an algorithm to decide whether to save CD waveform or not according to the event total Charge. See MR !172, done by Zhen Liu.

* Reconstruction
  * Updates for variables used to record time and memory consumptions for some algorithms. See MR !163, done by Zhen Liu.
  * Review of imbQCTool and NPEUnifCTool. See MR !124, reviewed by Maxim, done by Guihong.

* OEC
  * Fix issue #93 due to uninitialized problem. See MR !162, done by Xuefeng Ding.
  * OEC Atm nu selection algorithm update. See MR !137, done by Xinhai He. 

### Basic info of J23.1.0-rc0
This is a pre-release version for validation.
- JUNOSW url: git@code.ihep.ac.cn:JUNO/offline/junosw.git
- JUNOSW tag: J23.1.0-rc0
- offline data version: "trunk 161"
- sniper version: "v2.2.3" (GitHub)
- mt.sniper version: "v0.9.1" (GitHub)


The pre-compiled software could be found in CVMFS:
- CentOS7+gcc 11.2.0: /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc0


For users in IN2P3 and INFN-CNAF, you can also use CVMFS as it is mounted already:
```bash
source /cvmfs/juno.ihep.ac.cn/centos7_amd64_gcc1120/Pre-Release/J23.1.0-rc0/setup.sh
```

Please contact with Tao Lin <lintao@ihep.ac.cn> if there are any problems.

